In our series of letters from African journalists, Sierra Leonean-Gambian writer Ade Daramy, who moved to live The Gambia earlier this year, fastens his seat belt. On moving to a new country, there many things to consider - learning the language, always helps you get around. But if you are a driver, learning the "road culture" is a must. After six months in The Gambia I popped backed to the UK for a visit and felt oddly disorientated yet could not figure out why. It was only on my fourth day when I heard a solitary "beeeeep" as I was walking along that I exclaimed, "That's what's missing." It was the car horns. In The Gambia, a symphony of cacophony is so ever-present that a gap of four seconds would be considered an eternity. As you can imagine, hearing a horn sound with such frequency indicates that Gambians have found many uses for it. These include saying hello to friends - expecting the friends in a crowd of hundreds to know it is them being greeted. Then there's the beep to warn pedestrians: "Don't you dare cross the road." Drivers deem it wimpish to allow anyone to cross and it has surprised me that The Gambia has not produced more world class sprinters - as sprinting is only way get to the other side of a road. You actually get crossly beeped at by other drivers when you give way to a pedestrian. You may also be interested in: Rarely do you hear a courteous beep. I have tried, without success, to find out if it is a chargeable offence to allow other cars to pull out in front of you. In fact, many drivers seem to prefer to crash into another car rather than allow it to go. This is borne out by the fact I have witnessed the result of an accident a day since January, just in the small area I live and work. So if travelling to The Gambia, here are some things to be wary of: Above all, remember, as you climb in your car, to leave your good manners in the house - just as everyone else seems to do. Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, on Facebook at BBC Africa or on Instagram at bbcafrica